# CNN_Rx_torax

Masters dissertation:
Convolutional Neural Networks in Chest X-Ray Image Classification: COVID-19, Interstitial Lung Diseases, and Tuberculosis
Dissertation presented to the Interunit Postgraduate Program in Bioengineering of the São Carlos School of Engineering, Ribeirão Preto Medical School, and São Carlos Institute of Chemistry, University of São Paulo, São Carlos, 2023.

Abstract:
Coronavirus Disease 19 (COVID-19) and tuberculosis are the two deadliest respiratory diseases in the world, accounting for approximately 1.97 million and 1.4 million deaths per year, respectively. The purpose of this work is to conduct experiments with 4 databases containing simple chest radiography (CXR) images and 5 convolutional neural network (CNN) architectures, to classify the data into COVID-19, interstitial lung disease (ILD), tuberculosis, and no disease. COVID-19 pneumonia shows greater radiological similarity with ILD than with other viral pneumonias. For the study, a database with imaging exams of COVID-19, interstitial lung diseases, and tuberculosis was retrospectively developed, sourced from the services of the Hospital das Clínicas da Faculdade de Medicina de Ribeirão Preto (HCFMRP), Universidade de São Paulo. Images from 3 other public databases were also tested, 1 with CXR images of COVID-19 and 2 with CXR images of tuberculosis. Experiments were conducted with the VGG19 CNN architecture and 3 data groups: 'All without augmentation', 4 distinct databases without artificial data augmentation; 'All with augmentation', 4 distinct databases with artificial data augmentation; 'HCFMRP with augmentation', 1 own, more reliable database, with artificial data augmentation. 15\% of the images were set aside for testing, and the rest was divided into 5 partitions for cross-validation. The best partition of each experiment was tested with the test image group. With the 'All with augmentation' data group, the best results were obtained: overall accuracy of 88.26\%, the averages (among the classes) of precision, sensitivity, f1-score, and AUC-ROC were 0.875, 0.867, 0.872, and 0.972, respectively. Subsequently, the training, validation, and test data were maintained, and experiments were conducted with 4 more CNNs: EfficientNetV2S, ResNet152V2, InceptionV3, and Xception. None of these networks performed better than VGG19, the accuracies of the other networks presented were 86.68\%, 84.23\%, 84.90\% and 82.55\%, respectively. The Grad-CAM Heatmap was performed to help visualize how CNN VGG19 used the images to carry out the classification. The results are compatible with those found in the literature on CNN and CXR and also with studies on the performance of radiologists. No work was found that simultaneously used the 4 classes we presented, which makes training the neural network more difficult.
